S SHAMSHATH BEGUM B38 WE TAMIL                      
TASK 02:

                       Difference between Window object and Document object in JavaScript

          DOCUMENT OBJECT	                       WINDOW OBJECT

1.It is loaded inside the window.	         It is the very first object that is loaded in the browser.

2.It is the object of window property.	         It is the object of the browser.

                Browser Object Model (BOM)
     The Browser Object Model contains objects that represent the current browser window or tab. The topmost object
in the BOM is the window object representing the window or tab or an iframe sometimes. Window object has properties
like browser history, location and the device’s screen etc. In case of multi tab browser, a window object represents
a single tab, but some of its properties like innerHeight, innerWidth and methods like resizeTo() will affect the whole 
browser window.

                 Document Object Model
      When a web page is loaded, the browser creates a Document Object Model of the page. The document object represents 
the whole html document as a tree of Objects(HTML, HEAD, BODY, and other HTML tags). It is the root element that represents
the html document.




Window Vs Document

Window object : It is the top most object and outermost element of the object hierarchy .The window object represents a
 window/tab containing a DOM document where as document object isproperty of window object that points to the DOM 
document loaded in that window.

Document object : Each HTML document that gets loaded into a window becomes a document object. The document contains 
the contents of the page. Using document object, JavaScript can modify, add and delete the HTML elements, attributes 
CSS styles in the page.

You can access a document object either using window.document property or using document object directly as 
window is global object. In the below example, title is the property of document object.


The other major difference is that both window object and document object have properties and methods.
Few method names are same in both objects but with different behavior.For example window.open()
opens a new tab or window and document.open() creates a blank document within the window.



